Analyse a region|Right click on the main map to select a polygon or cross-section for futher analysis
Get a catalog's details|Choose "info" from the Catalog menu to get details including the number of events
Get events from the web|ZMAP can retrieve event catalogs from a FDSN Event web service, giving you access to datacenters across the globe
Change default settings|Choose ZMAP Preferences from the file menu to access the ZMAP settings. saved settings are persistent between sessions.
Analyses in space and time|ƒ(t) - analysis in space|ƒ(x,y) - analysis over a grid (x,y) or (lon,lat)|f(s,z) - analyse a cross-section (distance, depth)|f(x,y,z) - analysis over volume
Save catalog to workspace|choose "catalog" -> "export current catalog" from the menu to save the event catalog as a table, a catalog, or an old z-map array.
Start a zmap a workspace variable| To start a Zmap session using a catalog that you have in your workspace type |    ZmapMainWindow(catalog)| at the command prompt, where "catalog" is your catalog variable.
Shift tabs around|Move an analysis window to the top or bottom pane by right-clicking on the tab name, and then choosing choosing "Move Tab".
Change cross-section properties|By right-clicking on the cross-section name, you can modify the color, or width of the cross section.
Get cross-section info|Choose "Info" from the drop-down menu accessed by right-clicking the cross-section name
Explore the cross section in different ways|Right-click on the axes labels, or on the data points to change how the data is shown. You can change the X and Y axes, as well as the color and size.
Explore the catalog|Choose "Explore Catalog" from the "Ztools" menu to open an interactive axes, where you can change which catalog attributes plot to the  X and Y axes, as well as the with color and size. 
Discover new functionality|Right-click on everything! Many of the axes, axes labels, tabs, lines, and scatterplots are interactive. They contain menus that provide additional options.
Change the symbols on your map|Choose "Edit Main Map Symbols" from the Display menu
Learn more about your results|When looking at a results map, certain keys have special functionality.  Press '?' to get a list of functions, including getting full results for a point and choosing multiple points to compare
Confine the sample grid to your events|To reduce the nubmer of grid points to evaluate without manually selecting a polygon, choose "Wrap events in POLYGON (complex hull)" from the Sampling menu.
Experiencing huge holes in your bvalue results?|You could try to first cut the catalog to an approximate magnitude of completion, and THEN run your analysis.
Load [almost] any text file | Many arbitrary delimited-text catalog files can be loaded, as long as they contain a similarly delimited header row.|ZMAP looks for headers like: Longitude, Latitude, Depth, Magnitude, MagnitudeType, Day, Month, Year, Hour, Minute, Second, and (more generally) Date. 
Modify your cross-section|Right-click on cross-section's tab to change some of its properties
Reprt an issue with ZMAP|If you experiencing errors or "funny" behavior with ZMAP, create a new issue in GitHub.  Simply choose "Report a ZMAP issue" from the help Menu.
Reuse your polygon|Polygons can be saved and reloaded, allowing you to select the exact same region for different catalogs.
Cut the catalog to the Mc|You can remove events from the catalog that fall below the Mc directly from the FMD plot. Right click in the plot, and choose "Cut catalog at Mc".|You will have the option to modify the cutoff magnitude before committing.
Save your results|From the "Results", Choose "Save results", and then specify the desired format. Some options:|  "Results as ASCII file" : all fields as columns|  "bvalgrid object" : all fields and other meta information, best for reevaluating later|  "Entire figure" : saves figure|  "Results as table" : saves a table of all fields|"X,Y,VAL..." saves only the displayed values in an 3-column table
